# Rationale for Mobile games with Corona SDK

## Why games

Almost everyone writing software in their mid twenties got started because they
wanted to make video games. Games are engaging. The best games push on your
imagination and critical thinking the same way a good book does. Games are a
good place to get kids interested in programming because they're very visual,
feedback is immediate, and they're software the kids can understand and build to
their own desires. Moreover, kids can *share* games with other kids. There's
nothing more motivating as a game designer (or software developer) than seeing
someone use your work.

With all that, games are hard. Games are the absolute hardest software to write
for a lot of reasons. This class is going to be challenging for students and
mentors, but it's also going to be really rewarding.

## Why mobile?

The computer of today's youth is the mobile device. Young kids and by extension
prospective early coders are far more likely to have regular access to a mobile
phone or tablet than a laptop computer. Furthermore, mobile devices are portable
and encourage sharing by their ease of transfer and basic interface. Anyone who
writes a game for a mobile device can hand that to their friend much more
readily than they can share a computer program.

## Why Corona

We know we want mobile and we know we want games. From the above sections we see
the challenges to amortize are cross-platform compatibility and ease of
development. Of all available options for game development, Corona SDK is the
most suitable for this course.

* Corona uses a very simple programming language that is popular in the games world (Lua)
* Corona supports Android and iOS devices
* Corona is simpler than Unity, at the cost of some power
* Corona projects are easier to distribute and extend

There are reasons to do Unity-based programming both mobile and desktop in other
classes but for now I think Corona offers more if we want to keep teh class
accessible to younger students such as the ones we've been getting at Coder
Dojo.
